=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

virt-what-cvm - detect if we are running in a confidential virtual machine

=head1 SUMMARY

virt-what-cvm [options]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<virt-what-cvm> is a tool which can be used to detect if the program
is running in a confidential virtual machine.

The program prints out a list of "facts" about the confidential virtual
machine, derived from heuristics.  One fact is printed per line.

If nothing is printed and the script exits with code 0 (no error),
then it can mean I<either> that the program is running on bare-metal
I<or> the program is running inside a non-confidential virtual machine,
I<or> inside a type of confidential virtual machine which we don't know
about or cannot detect.

=head1 FACTS

=over 4

=item B<amd-sev>

This is a confidential guest running with AMD SEV technology

Status: tested on Fedora 37 QEMU+KVM

=item B<amd-sev-es>

This is a confidential guest running with AMD SEV-ES technology

Status: tested on Fedora 37 QEMU+KVM

=item B<amd-sev-snp>

This is a confidential guest running with AMD SEV-SNP technology

Status: tested on Microsoft Azure SEV-SNP CVM

Status: tested on Fedora 38 QEMU+KVM SEV-SNP (devel snapshot)

=item B<intel-tdx>

This is a confidential guest running with Intel TDX technology

Status: tested on Microsoft Azure TDX CVM (preview)

=item B<hyperv-hcl>

This is a confidential guest running unenlightened under the
HyperV (Azure) HCL (Host Compatibility Layer). This will be
paired with B<amd-sev-snp>.

Status: tested on Microsoft Azure SEV-SNP CVM

=back

=head1 EXIT STATUS

Programs that use or wrap C<virt-what-cvm> should check that the exit
status is 0 before they attempt to parse the output of the command.

A non-zero exit status indicates some error, for example, an
unrecognized command line argument.  If the exit status is non-zero
then the output "facts" (if any were printed) cannot be guaranteed and
should be ignored.

The exit status does I<not> have anything to do with whether the
program is running on baremetal or under confidential virtualization,
nor with whether C<virt-what-cvm> managed detection "correctly" (which
is basically unknowable given the large variety of virtualization
systems out there)

=head1 RUNNING VIRT-WHAT-CVM FROM OTHER PROGRAMS

C<virt-what-cvm> is designed so that you can easily run it from
other programs or wrap it up in a library.

Your program should check the exit status (see the section above).

=head1 IMPORTANT NOTE

This program detects whether it is likely to be running within a known
confidential VM, but does I<NOT> prove that the environment is trustworthy.
To attain trust in the environment requires an attestation report for the
virtual machine, which is then verified by an already trusted 3rd party.

The hardware features that this program relies on to establish facts
about the confidential virtualization environment, are those features
whose behaviour will be proved by verification of an attestation report.

This program I<MAY> have false positives. ie it may report that it is a
confidential VM when it is in fact a non-confidential VM faking it.

This program I<SHOULD NOT> have false negatives. ie it should not fail to
report existance of a confidential VM. Caveat that this only applies to
environments which have been explicitly tested.

If this program does print a fact, this can be used for enabling or
disabling use of certain features, according to whether they are
appropriate for a confidential environment. None the less, the VM
I<MUST NOT> be trusted until an attestation report is verified.

As a protection against false negatives from this tool, environments
requiring high assurance should take one or more of these measures:

 * The facts reported by this program I<SHOULD> should be measured
   into one of the TPM PCRs
 * The attestation report I<SHOULD> cover the facts reported by
   this program
 * The attestation report I<SHOULD> should cover the enablement
   status of any features affected by decisions involving facts
   reported by this tool

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/virt-what/>,
L<https://github.com/Azure/confidential-computing-cvm-guest-attestation>,
L<https://virtee.io/>

=head1 AUTHORS

Daniel P. Berrangé <berrange @ redhat . com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

(C) Copyright 2023 Red Hat Inc.,
L<http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/virt-what/>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Bugs can be viewed on the Red Hat Bugzilla page:
L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/>.

If you find a bug in virt-what-cvm, please follow these steps to report it:

=over 4

=item 1. Check for existing bug reports

Go to L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/> and search for similar bugs.
Someone may already have reported the same bug, and they may even
have fixed it.

=item 2. Capture debug and error messages

Run

 virt-what-cvm -d > virt-what-cvm.log 2>&1

and keep I<virt-what-cvm.log>.  It may contain error messages which you
should submit with your bug report.

=item 3. Get version of virt-what-cvm.

Run

 virt-what-cvm --version

=item 4. Submit a bug report.

Go to L<https://bugzilla.redhat.com/> and enter a new bug.
Please describe the problem in as much detail as possible.

Remember to include the version numbers (step 3) and the debug
messages file (step 2) and as much other detail as possible.

=item 5. Assign the bug to rjones @ redhat.com

Assign or reassign the bug to B<rjones @ redhat.com> (without the
spaces).  You can also send me an email with the bug number if you
want a faster response.

=back
